Name: ALEXANDDER ADENIYIN EWETUMO
METRIC: CS/H/FT/11213EW
SUBJECT: MIS(MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEM)
CODE: COM 417
CLASS: COMPUTER SCIENCE HND2

Survey
The survey is a non-experimental, descriptive research method. Surveys can be useful when a researcher wants to collect data on phenomena that cannot be directly observed (such as opinions on library services). Surveys are used extensively in library and information science to assess attitudes and characteristics of a wide range of subjects, from the quality of user-system interfaces to library user reading habits. In a survey, researchers sample a population. Basha and Harter (1980) state that "a population is any set of persons or objects that possesses at least one common characteristic." Examples of populations that might be studied are 1) all 1999 graduates of GSLIS at the University of Texas, or 2) all the users of UT General Libraries. Since populations can be quite large, researchers directly question only a sample (i.e. a small proportion) of the population. 

Types of Survey
    Data are usually collected through the use of questionnaires, although sometimes researchers directly interview subjects. Surveys can use qualitative (e.g. ask open-ended questions) or quantitative (e.g. use forced-choice questions) measures. There are two basic types of surveys: cross-sectional surveys and longitudinal surveys. Much of the following information was taken from an excellent book on the subject, called Survey Research Methods, by Earl R. Babbie.

    Cross-Sectional Surveys
    Cross-sectional surveys are used to gather information on a population at a single point in time. An example of a cross sectional survey would be a questionaire that collects data on how parents feel about Internet filtering, as of March of 1999. A different cross-sectional survey questionnaire might try to determine the relationship between two factors, like religiousness of parents and views on Internet filtering. 

    Longitudinal Surveys
    Longitudinal surveys gather data over a period of time. The researcher may then analyze changes in the population and attempt to describe and/or explain them. The three main types of longitudinal surveys are trend studies, cohort studies, and panel studies.

    - Trend Studies
    Trend studies focus on a particular population, which is sampled and scrutinized repeatedly. While samples are of the same population, they are typically not composed of the same people. Trend studies, since they may be conducted over a long period of time, do not have to be conducted by just one researcher or research project. A researcher may combine data from several studies of the same population in order to show a trend. An example of a trend study would be a yearly survey of librarians asking about the percentage of reference questions answered using the Internet.

    - Cohort Studies
    Cohort studies also focus on a particular population, sampled and studied more than once. But cohort studies have a different focus. For example, a sample of 1999 graduates of GSLIS at the University of Texas could be questioned regarding their attitudes toward paraprofessionals in libraries. Five years later, the researcher could question another sample of 1999 graduates, and study any changes in attitude. A cohort study would sample the same class, every time. If the researcher studied the class of 2004 five years later, it would be a trend study, not a cohort study.

    - Panel Studies
    Panel studies allow the researcher to find out why changes in the population are occurring, since they use the same sample of people every time. That sample is called a panel. A researcher could, for example, select a sample of UT graduate students, and ask them questions on their library usage. Every year thereafter, the researcher would contact the same people, and ask them similar questions, and ask them the reasons for any changes in their habits. Panel studies, while they can yield extremely specific and useful explanations, can be difficult to conduct. They tend to be expensive, they take a lot of time, and they suffer from high attrition rates. Attrition is what occurs when people drop out of the study. 

Subject Estimation
	This is a form of estimation that is based on the opinion,thought process and cognitive assumptions of an expert in measuring and giving a propably estimation of a specific situation,it is heavily dependent on the expert making is estimation and can be biased,it is usually used in situation where there is little data or information concerning a specific situation.
	Due to the fact that subject estimation is based on the subject i.e the expert making the measure,its important that as much possible information is provided or gathered,due tothe fact that the little the informtion the higher prone the measurement/estimation made is error-proned,For eg.
	a subjectively estimated probability is giving about a certain measure in conversion of that probability into a more objective numerical probability there is a high chance that the errors in the estimation are higher and that it will be less precised that using objective methodologies to provide the estimation

Transaction Processing
    Transaction processing is information processing that is divided into individual, indivisible operations, called transactions. Each transaction must succeed or fail as a complete unit; it cannot remain in an intermediate state. This is also the gathering of information and data necessary for specific decision making and storage which is uaully used in the managing and accessing of transactions between organizations,there exist different systems which have been implemented for such tasks, the information taken after the processing has been done can be seen as objective,precise and summarized,since it gives accounts and details of the necessary transactions and their specifics of what,how,where and why they occured. A transaction processing system collects and stores data about transactions and sometimes controls decisions made as part of a transaction. The transaction is the activity that changes stored data, examples of such an activity would be using a credit card, making a reservation or making a cash withdrawal at an ATM.
    There are two types of transaction processing:

    - Batch transaction processing: this is information that is gathered and stored but not processed immediately i.e. the processing of an invoice or cheques in a banking system.

    - Real time transaction processing: this is a transaction which is processed immediately and the operator has access to on-line database i.e. withdrawal from a bank account, Library loans.

    Transaction processing guards against hardware and software errors that might leave a transaction partially completed, with the system left in an unknown, inconsistent state. If the computer system crashes in the middle of a transaction, the transaction processing system guarantees that all operations in any uncommitted (i.e., not completely processed) transactions are cancelled.


Publications
    This are information,researches and general news published by either specialised organisations eg NewYorkTimes, .Net Magazines, these specific companies and organisations publish different informations and news on different facts and fields which provide an objective source for current and old information on different fields, studies ,research and global world state and condition. Such publications include:
        - .Net Magazines
        - Times
        - New York Times
        - Acts And Facts

Government Agencies
A government or state agency is a permanent or semi-permanent organization in the machinery of government that is responsible for the oversight and administration of specific functions, such as an intelligence agency. There is a notable variety of agency types. Although usage differs, a government agency is normally distinct both from a department or ministry, and other types of public body established by government. There are agencies setup by the government for the sole purpose of providing all necessary information to both the public and private sector individuals,business and foreign. There exists also a sector of the government which primary purpose is the gathering, analysis and generation of preventive and precausive measures which are generally themed Intelligence Organisations,there also exists as part of this organisation specific sectors that publish out and release this information to the public or to a sect of individuals such as the House Of Representative, House of Senators, House of Congress which review such information to ensure the advocated measures and actions are within the limits of the law. But mainly the government provide specifc sectors/organisation for the exact provision of allowable information of both the government activities,policies, actions and researches,studies for public access. eg Nation Congress Library of USA

Purchase from Outside
Information can be gathered and source through financial acquisition from an individual, group or an organisation what is specialised in the provision of data and information to the prospective buyer. Companies can also outsource research and studies tothese organisation in exchange for money or even in the buying of confidential secrets of competitive organisation to be able to have an edge against them.
